What is class?
A class is like an object constructo or a Blue Print for creating objects. To create a class, use the keyword "class"	

2)Explain Objects in Java ?
Object is an instance of class. Objects have States and behaviour.
 Eg: A dog has state - color,name,breed and also behaviour- barking, eating etc.		
	

3)What is the use of this keyword in Java ? Where all it can be used
This is a reference for  object and within the instance method or constructor. and it can be used within instance method and constructor .


4)What is Constructor ?
constructor is a method that is used to initialize object and constructor is called when an object of class created.
Eg: if we want to initialize object of bike that is color using constructor--public Book{
                                                                               public String name;
                                                                              
                                                                              public Book(String name);																			  
																			  
			                                                       this.name=name;		  
																						  
																						  }
5)What is over-loading explain with examples?
The methods have the same signature but accept different arguments.	
Two or more methods can have same name if they differ in parameters,These methods are called overloaded methods and this feature is called method overloading. 

Eg:name(String, int)
   name(String, float)	


6)What is static in Java ?
In the Java programming language, The static variable can be used to refer to the common property of all objects (which is not unique for each object), 
for example, the company name of employees, college name of students, etc.


7)What is Access Specifier?
 In java an access specifier provides visibility or permission to access a class,field,method or a constructor.
 There are four types : 1.public
                        2.protected
                        3.default
                        4.private
                        
1)Public can be used with outer Class/inner class,Field,Method and Constructor.
2)Protected can be used with inner class,Field,Method and Constructor.
3)default can be used with outer Class/inner class,Field,Method and Constructor.                                            
4)private can be used with inner class,Field,Method and Constructor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                


8)What are the types of variables explain with ex?

A variable is a name which is associated with a value that can be changed. OR Variables are containers for storing data values.
For example when I write byte Eyes=2; here variable name is Eyes which is associated with value 2 ,
byte is a data type that represents that this variable can hold byte values.   

There are 3 types in java:
1.Local variables
2.Instance variables
3.Class/Static variables

1.Local variables are declared in methods, constructors, or blocks.

public class Test {
   public void pupAge() {
      int age = 0;
      age = age + 7;
      System.out.println("Puppy age is : " + age);
   }

   public static void main(String args[]) {
      Test test = new Test();
      test.pupAge();
   }
}

2.Instance variables are declared in a class, but outside a method, constructor or any block.


3.Class variables also known as static variables are declared with the static keyword in a class, but outside a method, constructor or a block.
public class Employee {

 eg: private static double salary;

  public static final String DEPARTMENT = "Development ";

   public static void main(String args[]) {
      salary = 1000;
      System.out.println(DEPARTMENT + "average salary:" + salary);
   }
}



9)What in instantiation and initialization explain with example ?

Instantiation: The new keyword is a Java operator that creates the object. 
This is what the new keyword is doing. A reference to the object that was created is returned from the new keyword.

Initialization: The new operator is followed by a call to a constructor, which initializes the new object
This is when values are put into the memory that was allocated. This is what the Constructor of a class does when using the new keyword.

eg:SomeClass s; 
s = new SomeClass();

eg:int a=b+c; ... Multiple variables can be initialized in a single statement by single value, for example, a=b=c=d=e=10; 



10)Explain array's in Java with example ?

An array is data structure ,storing of object of the same data type.and it is initialize during declaration .declare and initialize 
   
 They are two types of arrays in Java: 

1.Single dimensional array − A single dimensional array of Java is a normal array where, the array contains sequential elements (of same type) −

int[] myArray = {10, 20, 30, 40}

2.Multi-dimensional array − A multi-dimensional array in Java is an array of arrays. 
A two dimensional array is an array of one dimensional arrays and a three dimensional array is an array of two dimensional arrays.


